Maybe there's a chance I get you outta
here before the rain starts pouring down.
You guys can be a little
bit drier, maybe not.
I'm not promising that,
not promising that.
Um, so we are continuing our
series, um, over next steps.
Um, and so, uh, you guys can go
ahead and turn to Matthew chapter 20.
We're gonna be covering
verses 24 through 28.
also John chapter 13.
Um, I'm not gonna preach through
every aspect of it, but it's, it's
two texts that really speak to
what we're talking about today.
So Matthew 20 versus 24 through 20
eights, what our main text of what
we'll be walking through today.
Um, and as we've been talking about,
uh, the last couple weeks, if you've
missed any of the messages over
the last two weeks, either through
serving or just not able to be
here, um, go back and watch online.
It's important for us all to be on
the same page, to be able to hear
everything that we've been talking about.
So we've been talking about the last
two weeks following Jesus and why we
make that a priority in our church and
why that's the first thing we make a
priority because everything we do flows
out of that relationship with Jesus.
Then last week we talked about living
in community and how that community
is so important for us to develop
and to grow our faith in Christ.
And when we even think about
living in community, how
important it is, For one another.
Right?
A lot of times we think of community as
what do I get out of it, but many times
community is how you can give back.
To someone.
And so we've talked about
those two things, right?
And we really believe that as we continue
through, uh, talking about our strategy
of fulfilling our mission, right?
Our mission is to inspire hope by helping
people discover God's purpose for their
life, through a relationship with Jesus.
We really believe that as we talk
through the strategy, as we begin to.
Live out this strategy that God has
given us to follow Jesus, live in
community, serve those around us
and expand God's kingdom, that we
will be able to fulfill that mission
that God has given us as a church.
Um, and, and one of the things I
think that's so interesting with
this is, um, I I'm really good.
I used to, uh, in college, I was
really good at listening to the
professor and going like that's
great information, but you know what?
One of the things that typically
was the hardest thing for.
Was when I walked out the door, it was
almost as though I forgot everything.
So that's so important for us that we
are walking out the door with something.
And so that's my hope each week is
that you're able to take something
to think through how I can take
a next step in my faith with
Christ in these different areas.
Um, and so, um, one of the things I wanna
share with you guys, just a couple of
things we've beginning to think through.
I actually asked a couple of.
Uh, members this question, I
said, how have we really fulfilled
our mission using our strategy?
And I wanted to kind of talk through
a couple of the wins over the last,
um, year, year and a half for us.
And here's the reason why, if
you don't celebrate the wins.
You'll get defeated because a lot of times
we're always looking for the next thing.
And so some of the wins that
we've had in fallen Jesus, I
was, I was counting this up.
I think it's somewhere between 11 and 12
people between kids and adults have given
their lives to Christ since being here.
Um, since inspiring hope has
started, we've seen, uh, several of
them fall through baptism and some
kids that are actually considering
falling through baptism soon.
Um, we've been talking
about living in community.
One of the cool parts of that is our
community started in an inspire group.
Um, and last year we started a second
inspire group and then this year
we're starting a third inspire group.
So if we look at living in
community, we've expanded that
community and living together.
Um, and something that we're gonna talk
about today is serving those around us.
Cuz I could give you a laundry list of
ways in which we've served our community.
And serve those around us, um, through
our schools, through outreach events,
through our mission teams coming
in through vacation Bible school,
port sports camps, um, Christmas
presents for kids, you name it.
We have done so much as a church and
I list just a couple of these, because
again, I could probably go on and on
and on about all the wins, all the ways
in which as a church we've, we've taken
next steps to follow Jesus as we've
taken next steps to live in community
as we've taken next steps, as we'll talk
about today to serve those around us.
But here's the thing we're not done.
That's one of the things that I am
encouraged by is that we can look
and celebrate all that God has done,
but God has not done with you yet.
And it, most of you may not
know how to take a pulse.
So if you take a pulse here or here,
if you will take a pulse, you'll
start feeling your heart beating.
If your heart is beating, that
means God is not done with you yet.
And I think this way, as a church,
collectively, our hearts are beating
together and as our hearts are
beating together, we're not done.
We still have more that got
us called us to fulfill.
And I'm excited about that.
I don't know about you guys,
but I wanna be a part of that.
I believe many of you are here
today because you're saying
you wanna be a part of that.
Right?
So what's it gonna take, it's
gonna take sacrifice of our time,
talents and treasures to fulfill
the mission that God us called us.
And so here's the question.
Why as a church, would we do this?
Why do we want to continue to see.
God move in our lives,
in our church's life.
And if we talk about specifically
today, why do we want to focus
on serving those around us?
Because that's exactly what Jesus did.
Jesus has changed our life and we
look to Jesus to model our life
after and specifically in the area of
serving Jesus ultimately served us by
coming and dying for us in our place.
Right.
To give us a new life, a new S.
To give us freedom from our sins and
to give us a hope and a peace and a
community of people to do life with.
Those are things that I think through
all that God has given me, as I
begin to look at Christ's life,
I wanna follow after his life.
So let's talk specifically
about service or serving.
Whenever I think about serving,
I tend to always think about,
um, a waitress or a waiter.
So who here likes to go to a restaurant
and have a waitress or waiter serve them?
Well, I mean like you, you
guys may not be like me.
I'm sitting here thinking in my mind.
Your tip depends on how well you do now.
Some of you are just so generous.
You don't care if they do a
good job, you're gonna tip 'em.
Well, I tip 'em as well guys, but
I love a good service, not the one
where they're, they're checking
on me every like three seconds.
But the one, it seems like they're
always just at there at the right time.
And, and, you know, you may
not experience that often.
Right.
But I enjoy whenever people serve me.
Well, let, let me give you
a another great example.
I loved, I mean, my, my wife's
such a good job at this.
My kids are such a good job at this.
They care take care of the home.
Like nowadays the age of my kids, like I
don't do much around the house anymore.
Used to, I was doing all these
things, but the kids do dishes and
laundry and Brittany takes care of
the kids and does all these things.
And I enjoy coming home
and not having to do much.
Right.
I enjoy being served well.
But let let's think about this
when it now is my turn at times.
Let let's just say this,
cuz it's happened before.
Well, Britney gets busy and
I've gotta take on some of
the responsibilities at home.
I kind of think it stinks.
I don't like folded laundry.
I don't wanna cook dinner and I, I, I
think it stinks because you know what
it's it's on me, but I like being served.
I mean, you guys like being served, but
at times whenever you are in someone
else's shoes, eh, you're okay with it.
Maybe not.
I also think about this a lot of times
when we put ourselves in someone else's
shoes, we begin to appreciate them
more and more guys, when we serve those
around us, we're putting ourselves in
Jesus' feet and we begin to realize
the sacrifice and effort it takes
to serve someone, especially someone
who's hard and difficult to serve.
Maybe even your enemies.
It is hard to do.
And you begin to realize
this is what Jesus.
And so, I don't know, I just started
thinking through a couple of ways that
we tend to be served and, and how I,
at times do not like to be served.
And I wanna give you a great
practical example for me.
So I always go to things in my
life that I'm doing consistently.
And so as I coach CrossFit, we've
started doing a nine 15 class.
I used to coach a noon class
and I do a 9:15 AM class.
And it tends to be this class
of moms with lots of kids.
See if I wanted to be around
a ton of kids, I'd go home.
And so at the gym it's been difficult
cuz it's like all these kids
running around and I'm going, man.
And again, I'm being selfish.
Like man, it's a little noisy in
here and all of a sudden, the Lord
convicted me and he goes, you know,
these moms are here because they're
trying to do something for themselves
and I've changed my perspective.
And so last week, this
is what I've turned into.
Now I'm a coach slash like
childcare professional.
I'm pushing a kid in a stroller
while yelling at the mom go.
Lift faster, go faster.
And you don't wanna know what the
coolest part in that same experience
while serving as a coach and as a
part-time, whatever you wanna call
me, child caretaker, the kid falls
asleep while I'm pushing him around.
And the mom, you can see it.
That's the first break she's had of
her three kids in the last three days.
She's like, oh my gosh,
like, thank you so much.
I actually got to work out without having
chase after my kid or push my kid around.
And in that moment, I felt
this sense of fulfillment.
See, we don't serve because it's easy.
We serve because we see the value and
the opportunity of building back into
someone's life and see Jesus served
us because here's the, the point Jesus
served us so well that when he served,
he saw the life change in our lives and
you go, wait, Jesus lived 2000 years ago.
What do you mean?
Jesus could see.
Everything his, his
perspective was not limited.
And so when he served by coming right,
and he began to give up his life
and live the life we couldn't live.
And the way in which he served
his disciples, man, he did that
because he knew the investment
he was making in each one of us.
See, that motivates me.
That encourages me.
So at times whenever I wanna be
selfish at times when I want to not.
That I choose to serve because
it allows me to show the love
of Jesus to those around us.
So why as Christ followers, is it
important for us to serve those around us?
Because we want other people to
experience the love, the hope, the,
the compassion of Jesus that maybe
other people aren't experiencing.
And I started thinking through
this guys, we are the physical
representation of Christ to those
around us, with God has chose to use
each one of us to fulfill his mission.
And when we recognize that
we are the centerpiece of
serving everybody around us.
So that's what Jesus did
when he was on earth.
But when he left, he let that
responsibility with us guys.
Now he's given us the ability
to be the physical presence of
Christ in people's life and how
it looks to serve those around.
And I love using these experiences,
but I want you to think about this.
There is someone around you today,
tomorrow that's waiting on you
to serve them well so that they
can experience who Jesus is.
So you're wondering, okay, when
are we gonna get in the text?
We're jumping into the text
now, but I wanna set this up.
Matthew 20 versus 24 through 28.
What happened before then?
Jesus just got done telling his
disciples for the third time.
Hey, I'm getting ready to die.
I'm getting ready to go
to the cross and die.
And it's so interesting.
What happens next?
As soon as he gets ready to tell, or he
tells his disciples, this statement, two
of the disciples mother, which it's John
and James, they, she comes to Jesus.
And this is what she says.
I'm gonna read this.
It's not up on the screen, but it says
here, um, in verse 20, it says then
the mother of Zeb sons approach him.
Speaking of Jesus, this is right after
he just said, Hey, I'm getting ready to
die on the cross and be raised again.
She nailed down and asked for something.
He says, what do you want?
Here's the cool part.
Jesus literally just lays out his
heart about what he's gonna do.
And somebody has a need and wants
asked a question and he doesn't
just like, say, no, I'm too busy.
I'm getting ready to go die for you.
He says, no, what's your question.
And so this is why she
says, um, she says promise.
She said to him that these two sons
of mine may sit at one at your right
and one at your left in your kingdom.
And Jesus answered.
You don't know what you're asking.
Are you able to drink the
cup that I'm about to.
The two boys or the two, not boys,
but the two men said we are able,
they said to him, and so he told
them, you will indeed drink my cup,
but to sit at my right into my left.
Uh, to give is instead is not,
oh, I'm gonna say this better.
You will indeed drink my cup, but to
sit at my right and left is not mine
to give instead, it is those for whom
and has been prepared for by my father.
So we see these two brothers
wanting to sit at the right and
the left of Jesus and his kingdom.
They are more worried about themselves and
their position than they are about what
Jesus was getting ready to go do to them.
This is where we pick up on the story.
So this is the part you'll
see up on the screen.
So in verses 24, and on, we're
gonna read here, it says when the 10
disciples, cuz there was 12 of 'em.
So the other 10 heard this, they became
indignant with the two brothers and
Jesus called them over and said, you
know that the rulers of the Gentiles
lorded over them and those in high
positions act as Tyran over them.
It must not be like this
among you on the contrary.
Whoever wants to be great
among you must be your.
whoever wants to be first
among you must be your slave.
Just that the son of man did not come
to be served, but to serve and to
give his life as a ransom for many.
So let's pray, Lord Jesus.
We pray Lord that our hearts
are open a Lord to your word.
I pray that each one of us leaves outta
here challenged and changed Lord in the
area of serving those around us Lord,
because you modeled what that looks like,
and you've challenged us to continue that
on today, uh, with everyone around us.
And so we just pray this
in your heavily name.
Amen.
So the first thing we see
here is, uh, something that
I think we can all relate to.
The reason why we typically struggle
to serve those around us is the
same reason why the disciples
struggled, selfishness, selfishness.
You, if you look at this text, you
might actually see the disciples.
It says that they, they become
indignant over the two brothers.
Basically they become angry.
You may think they're becoming righteously
angry because they're, they're angry
because the two guys even wanted to sit
at the side of Jesus and that they would
even ask them that after what Jesus said,
we wanna assume that they they're just
trying to be good Christians and really
get on the two brothers for asking that.
But Jesus knew more than that because
he wasn't just addressing the two when
he goes on, he's actually addressing
the 12 people's hearts because
these men were frustrated that they
didn't get the chance to ask first.
You may say, well, how do you know that
it doesn't exactly say that in the text.
What we do know is we begin to
look at the disciples every time
that they spent with Jesus, they
tend to always ask this question.
Who's gonna be the greatest
in the kingdom of God.
They, they always wanted the
best positions at the table.
They wanted to, to be in, they
wanted, they weren't worried about
themselves in their position.
And so we see that there for them.
And as you guys even heard me talk
about when it comes to serving,
typically I, I want, I wanna be served
well, I, I, I, I care about if I'm
sitting up front or if I'm in the most
comfortable chair, do I get the best
meal or do I get the best service?
It tends to be more about me.
And so when I look at this, I
see myself in the disciples feet.
Going man.
Why did they ask first?
I, I should have been there and
you know, I'm a little bit jealous.
And so anybody here ever been jealous
over somebody's position or relationship
or income status or social media status?
I mean, I can't tweet like some people,
I don't even know if Twitter's out
there anymore, but some of us think
that we're, we're better than ourselves.
And I started thinking about this,
these disciples when Jesus exonerated
die is more worried about themselves.
They're thinking inwardly about where's my
position gonna be in the kingdom of God.
And they weren't even thinking outside of
themselves about where's everybody else's
position gonna be in the kingdom of God.
See, I, I started thinking as Christians
today, at times we catch ourselves just
like the disciples where we think we are
better than those who don't know Christ.
Now, now I wanna actually
lay this out in some forms.
We're in a better position.
Meaning that we have a relationship
with Christ that we're, we're gonna
spend an eternity in heaven, but we
are not better in terms of our lives.
We are all sinners.
We're all sinners.
We're all in need of
God's grace and mercy.
But at times I know this whenever
I was lost, whenever I didn't
know Christ, I struggled with
Christians who seemed to have.
this air about them, that they were better
than me, that they knew more than me.
And they wanted to show me that.
And that just turned me totally off
because if that's what a Christ follower's
gonna be, I don't wanna be a part of this.
And I I'm looking at this with these
guys and I'm kind of struggling with the
same thing and going man, if, if they
all they care about is their position.
And then I started looking at myself.
If all I care about is how well I'm
served, then I need to check my heart.
So again, the reason why we don't
like serving those around us is
because it's typically selfishness.
We're, how's this gonna affect
me more than how's it going
to benefit someone else?
Well, let, let's continue to see this,
that Jesus confronts his disciples
in the way in which we, we would
perceive that they are more concerned
about themselves than anyone else.
And so he says this, he says, you
know, that the rulers of the Gentiles
lorded over them and those in high
positions act as tyrants over.
And he says, it must not
be like this among you.
So let's just start there.
Basically what Jesus is telling us
disciples is those who don't know
Christ, they're acting basically that
they are more important in this world.
Than than anybody else.
And so we think about
leaders, we think about Kings.
They're more important.
It's all about them.
It's about how they get served.
That's what the world does.
That's what, that's what the,
the, the world wants you to do is
they, they want to have position.
They wanna have stature.
They wanna receive specialist treatment.
It's all about them, but Jesus says
it must not be like this among you.
Among you.
So as we think about this, Jesus is
saying if we want, and if he goes
on or he says that this, this, it
must not be like this among you.
And he says on the contrary, whoever
wants to become great among you.
You must be a servant.
So if you don't hear that second
part, I mean, anybody like
me, do you wanna become great?
Yes.
Do you wanna become great now, some of
you are just humble and you're like,
no, I just wanna be the worst, you
know, Christ fall or ever, because
I wanna be humble, but like I, okay.
Overal wants to be great.
Good.
Somebody else is with me.
Okay.
We typically wanna be great.
And we're gonna see here in a moment,
we typically wanna be first, like.
I mean, you guys ever seen kids
like waiting around and all of a
sudden they say, okay, food's ready.
And like, they run to
the front of the line.
Why?
Because they want the
best they wanna be first.
Right.
They wanna be great.
And I would say this deep down
inside all of us wanna be great.
We wanna be great at what we do.
We wanna be great as a Christ follower.
We wanna be great in, in these things.
And he says this, if we wanna be
great, then we are to become a servant.
I begin to look at this UK Jers out there.
I started looking at
different translation.
Here's what it says.
Another translation is that
you must become a minister.
You must become a minister.
So to become a minister is to,
to minister to one another.
Right?
And really the translation with this
is one who executes the commands
of another, the servant of a king.
Or if we go back to a waiter or a waitress
to serve someone's needs above our own.
So if we wanna become great.
as a church, as a group of people,
then we will begin to place
everyone else's needs above our own.
See, that's a challenging statement.
As I begin to reflect and ask
this question as a church, are
we committing to serve others?
Are we committing to place
their needs above our own?
I would say.
At times we do.
Absolutely.
But as individuals, we're
not with each other.
Right?
So as we begin to reflect on our
lives, are we in our everyday life?
Right?
As a collective group, as
a church, maybe we are.
But as our everyday life are, we placing
other people's needs above our own.
Well, he says, if we wanna become
great, then that's what we should do.
And then he goes on in verse 27 and
he says, and whoever wants to be
first among you must become a slave.
Right.
And to be a slave is to disregard
of one's own interests in
the sake of another person's.
So if you ever wanna know if you've
ever been around me whenever there's
food, I typically eat last because
I wanna be first cuz it says those
who are first will be last and
those will be last to be first.
Right.
So I've just lost my whole reward because
that's my whole intention behind it.
Cuz I'm trying to be self-serving in that.
See that's the craziest part
about the Christian walk
you ever find yourself want.
To like be last because you're
really trying to like honor the
Lord, but then in there's some
sort of like ego in it to be last.
You're like, uh, maybe you're not like
me, but that's how I I'm telling you.
I do that.
And then there's conviction and I'm
like, should I eat in the middle
just to kind of throw it off?
Like, I don't know.
I don't think that's where
God's getting at guys.
I really don't.
I think what he's trying to say here is.
The way in which we serve.
I, I wanna get to more of this later,
the way in which we serve is a reflection
of who Jesus is and how Jesus served.
And on the way out, Jesus served us.
Well, there wasn't anything he
withheld to serve our needs.
Our greatest needs to
be forgiven of our sins.
So when we look at this, Jesus
seems to flip the script when it
comes to what the world tells us.
I'll just tell you this.
Before I gave my life to Christ.
You don't wanna know some of the most
aspiring goals I had was to get rich, have
lots of things and do lots of fun stuff.
And I didn't really care what it took.
It was all about me.
It was all about me, but Jesus is, is
consistently telling us after we come to
Christ that it's, it's, it's not all about
me because Jesus made it all about us.
And when he made it all about us
and I received the greatest thing,
the gift of salvation that now it
is about everyone else's needs.
See that that's the craziest
part is that we've received.
If you've given your left card,
you've received the greatest
gift you can ever receive.
And that's enough.
But what about those that haven't received
that see, because they're waiting for
someone to tell them, to show them by
serving them well, and like, that should
be an aspiring goal for us as individuals
to go out and serve in such a way that
it points people to Christ and they go,
why are you placing my needs above yours?
And you can go because Jesus
placed his needs above mine.
First.
See that.
Is why we are motivated to live
the life that we live and to,
to be a part of a church that
tries to prioritize those things.
I started thinking through this when
it comes to being generous, right?
Because again, when we think about
generosity as the opposite of greed,
right, when it comes to being generous,
we tend to only think about the
negative aspect of being generous.
What if I don't have.
What if I don't have it, what if the
money I give away or the time I give
away or the resources I give away?
What if I don't have enough?
Let me just tell you right
now, you'll never have enough.
I I've, I've learned this.
I've I've been married
now, way too many years.
What?
17, 18, too many, too many to count.
It's not what I meant too many to
count my point in that I remember
thinking when we first got married,
if I could just get this promotion.
If I could just get this race, if I could
just get this house, we would have enough.
If we'd just stop, having
kids we'd have enough.
Right.
All those things.
And here was the truth of it.
I have as much as I need, because
that's what God has given me.
So when we think about being
generous, so, you know, this is time
when I thinking about time talents
and treasures of serving people.
Generosity is a part of that
when it comes to being generous,
you know that to be generous.
It takes just generosity.
It doesn't take money.
It doesn't take all this extra time
that you just have sitting there
that you wanna give away, or all
this extra money is just sitting
in the savings account to dig away.
Do you know, to be generous is,
is just an act of being generous.
It, it's literally just giving of
what you have to those around you.
Maybe that seems too simple to
you, but I'm challenged with this
idea of our time, talents and
treasures to serve those around.
It's usually it's not money.
That's holding this back.
It's not extra time holding this back.
It's us choosing other things as
more important than those things,
more important than those things.
I'll just tell you this.
We all have the same amount of time
and we all can choose how we use it.
And just so you know, at times I choose
selfish things over things that would
be, be more beneficial for others.
Because I like serving myself.
Why?
Because that's, our
nature is a sinful nature.
When I look at God's word, I'm reminded
that God has given me time, talents
and treasures to serve those around us.
This is tough, but I, I just go back
and read over these statements if we
wanna be great, if we wanna be first.
And, and just so you know,
that's not a bad thing.
If we wanna be great in God's kingdom
to serve the greatest needs, if we wanna
be first, which means if we want to be.
From a standpoint of what God
would call a godly person, someone
that is after God's own heart.
If we wanna be that we have to stop
having excuses, why we don't have enough
to give we all do no matter what it is.
I reminded myself of this
and it it's challenged me.
Um, is this idea behind if
there's more on your list to do
than once you have time to do.
There's something on your list
that God didn't put there.
I, I, I probably realize this and
you guys have the same conversation.
Usually you'll ask this question.
How was your week, Joe?
We had this conversation,
Joe, how was your week?
He says, if it was busy, you know, if
Joe would've asked me the same question,
I would've said, man, it was busy.
We all have busy weeks.
We all have busy weeks, but when we
look at our life and when we evaluate.
is, are we busy about doing the
Lord's work that he's called us
to do to serve those around us?
Like Jesus is challenging
us to, in this statement,
it's a tough statement, but
I think it's something that
Jesus modeled for us, right.
He modeled for us.
And that's what we see
in this last example.
Jesus sets the example in verse 28.
He says just as the son, a man
did not come to be served, but to
serve and give his life as a ran.
I think anything that seems difficult and
impossible, we wanna look for a way out.
We wanna look for a reason why
we don't do it because you know,
again, I'm not gifted enough.
I don't have enough time.
I don't have the right job.
I don't have the right resources, whatever
it is, but Jesus sets the example.
And the one thing I noticed about Jesus'
life, as I begin to look at, it was just
let's let's walk through this together.
Did Jesus have a ton
of financial resources?
Was he rich?
He was one of the most generous people.
I know.
I mean, Jesus lived on earth to fulfill
God's perfect plan of him dying on the
cross for our sins and to train up these
disciples, he had plenty of things to do.
Jesus was busy, but did it seem
like Jesus ever rushed anywhere?
He, he walked everywhere.
Did it seem like he was ever
interrupted by a person who
was trying to touch his cloak?
Just to be heal?
Or in this instance, right after he
just said that he was going to, to
die on the cross and be crucified
and to be raised again, that a mother
would come up and ask a question
and he says, what's your question?
Jesus had enough time.
Jesus had enough resources.
Jesus was generous with what he had.
See, that's what challenges me because
I look and I say, I don't have enough.
I have too much, too much to do too many
things to spend money on and pay for.
God's telling me over and over again that
he set the example through Jesus who had
less than I had in resources and probably
more of a bigger task to, to fulfill.
And he seemed to have more
time than I have right now.
So we see this, that Jesus came to
earth, not to just serve himself,
but to serve us if he wanted to
serve himself, wanted it to be easy.
He could have just stayed
up in heaven, but he didn't.
He said the example by laying down his.
In giving us a new life.
I want you to turn to John chapter 13,
we're gonna read verses one through 17.
You would've heard me preach through
this when we did communion, but I wanna
read through it, touch a couple of
highlights and then we will close today.
So John chapter 13, I'm gonna
read verses one through 17.
I think that they'll be
up here on the screen as.
But here's what it says.
It says before the Passover
festival, Jesus knew that his
hour had come to depart from this
world to the father, having loved
his own, who were in the world.
He loved them to the end.
Now, when it was time for supper,
the devil had already put into
his heart into the heart of Judas
Simon's Iscariots son to betray him.
Jesus knew that the father had
given everything into his hands
and that he had come from God
and that he was going back to.
And so he got up from the supper table
and laid at his outer clothing and took
a towel and tied it around himself.
And next he poured water into a basin and
began to wash a disciple's feet and to
dry them with a towel tied around them.
And it came to Simon, Peter who asked
him, Lord, are you going to wash my feet?
And Jesus answered him.
What I'm doing.
You don't realize now, but
afterwards you will understand,
you will never wash my feet, Peter.
And Jesus replied.
If I do not wash you,
you have no part with me.
And so Simon Peter said to him,
Lord, only my F uh, not only my
feet, but also my hands in my head.
One who has Beed, Jesus told him does
not need to wash anything except his
feet, but he has completely clean.
You are clean, but not all of you
for he knew who would betray him.
And this is why he said
not all of you're clean.
And when Jesus had washed their feet
and put on their outer clothing,
he reclined again and said to them,
do you know what I have done for.
You call me teacher and Lord.
And you were speaking rightly
since that's what I am.
So if I, or Lord and teacher have washed
your feet, you also ought to wash one
another's feet where I have given you
an example that you also should do as I
have done for you also, truly I tell you
a servant is not greater than his master.
A messenger is not greater
than the one who sent him.
If you know these things, you are blessed.
If you do.
If you hear this text, you see
how it's connected to everything
we're talking about today.
Jesus was heading towards the
cross to suffer for our sins and
he chose to serve his disciples.
First.
I'm just telling you
if I'm on my deathbed.
If I know I'm getting ready to go
die, I'm probably asking for a steak
dinner and hang out with my family.
I, I, there's a good chance.
I'm not gonna tell you.
Take off your shoes.
Let.
Get a TA.
I'm just telling you that's me because
I tend to lean towards what serves me,
but Jesus modeled at the end of his life.
What it looks like to
serve those around him.
Here's the, here's the interesting part.
I just wanna walk through
this real quickly.
Do you know who Jesus served?
Not the easy people, the difficult people.
Peter was difficult.
If you know Peter, he seemed to
always push back against the plan.
He tried to do it differently.
And yeah, in the end, Peter said, yes.
And in the end, even though Peter
rejected him, Peter came back to
him, but he was a difficult disciple.
And I'm just telling you,
God probably looks at me and
says, you're a lot like Peter.
And he still served me.
And you know what?
That challenges me to do that.
Sometimes it's difficult
to serve those around you.
It is difficult, but Jesus
modeled how we can overcome that
difficulty because he did not.
Say, Hey everybody, but you, or if
you're not good enough, or if you
have the right, you know, heart,
no, he says I'm gonna serve you.
And here's the second part.
Jesus served even his own enemies.
So not just the difficult people he's
talking about, the people who wanted
to kill him, that literally led to
his, if like he still served them.
Like guys that is difficult to
say, let's take off your shoes
and wash your dirty, nasty feet.
That is difficult, but Jesus modeled.
Jesus the savior of the world, son
of God, humbled himself to serve his
disciples and us because Jesus did more
than take off our shoes to wash our feet.
He suffered on a cross because of all
the sins of our life and in our life and
everything that has, we have fallen short.
God has washed that away through
his son's death on the cross.
So when we look to serving those around
us, As below us, or they're not good
enough, or they're too difficult.
We are saying that we are
greater than Jesus himself.
And where are you seeing
this been in verse 16?
He says, truly I tell you a servant
is not greater than his master.
And everybody that has given their lives
to Christ has become a servant of Christ.
And when we refuse to serve
those around us, we are refusing.
We are actually making a statement
that we are better than Jesus.
I just, I'm telling you right now that
I ask God to continue to help me to
never say that I am better than Jesus,
because I am not, I am better because
of Jesus, but I'm not better than Jesus.
The one who served me first.
So as we, we conclude and as we
finish up today, and as we think
through our mission as a church to
inspire hope and help people discover
their purpose, every single person.
Has a next step to following Jesus and
having a relationship with Jesus guys.
We can't miss this important part.
I, I, I we're walking through
this and this is the important
part you're connected to a church.
Not because that's what you have to do.
Not because we're just some
random church on the corner
that you're just gonna go to.
But because you believe in the
mission and fulfilling that mission
by following Jesus, living in
community, serving those around you.
And expanding God's kingdom,
which we'll talk about in a couple
of weeks as we don't do that,
because it's a cool statement.
We do it because that's what Jesus did.
We don't serve those around us because
it, it benefits us and that's gonna get
us somewhere further in the kingdom of
God, or God's looking at us and saying,
okay, you can get in because you serve.
No, we serve because we were served first.
I think it's easy after looking, I say
easy but easy after reading these two.
That as a church, it's logical for us as a
church to, to continue to take next steps
in the area of serving those around us.
I want you during this time of invitation,
I want you to think, what does it look
like in my life to serve those around me?
Let me just give you some examples.
Some things you can pray over to take
a next step in for some of you that
first step could just be in a part of
our church and serving in our church.
You know, you may think, but
that's what everybody else does.
It's not easy for me, but for you, maybe
it's for you to, to be a part of one of
our ministry teams to be a part of kids or
students or greeting or cafe or music to
serve those around you in that capacity.
If you're not doing it,
that's a great next step.
Maybe it's to be a part of surf Sunday.
So next week is surf Sunday.
I think this sets up perfect guys.
Next week, surf Sunday, don't
look at it as I'll let the rest
of the church do that while I get
to sleep in for once whyt come.
And help us serve our teachers by putting
together these gifts and making these
posters and, and praying over them.
And here's the cool part.
You can be a part of that by, we're
gonna talk about this a little bit
later, but you can bring pastries next
week or something for breakfast that,
that can basically go on a fridge.
Or if it doesn't have to go on a fridge,
we're gonna give those to teachers
a week from tomorrow, um, to them.
So you can help us serve our
community by serving on Sunday.
Here's something just giving
you another practical.
In, in September, we're doing something
called shoes for the shoeless.
At Riverview elementary,
we're partnering with them.
We need people to go with us to
the school and help put shoes on
kids and give them shoes for you.
It could be serving your neighbors.
You know, what you could do if their
grass is long, don't just call the
HOA and complain about 'em go mow it.
Bring them cookies.
You don't make good cookies, go to
Walmart, buy 'em, knock on the door
and say, I wanted to serve you today
because God has so changed my life.
And I hope you're having a good day.
Like those are small
things to be like Christ.
You know what you can do?
You can, you can go to inspire group.
You know, I gave out cards last week.
If you didn't get a card, you can
go back to the next steps table.
I gave out a card for you to circle
a night or a day in which you could
be a part of an inspire group.
You know that one of the
greatest ways that you can serve
is be a part of an inspire.
Participate and get involved
with what they're doing.
Something you heard me talk
about earlier generosity.
You know, how you could start serving as
a, as a church start giving consistently,
you know that as you give, we actually
go out and give back to our community.
And right now, as a church we're year
and a half in and 40% of our budget
is funded by our current membership.
The other 60% is outside
people that are from different
states that are funding our.
That's gonna go away at one point.
And that means we, all of us
can take a responsibility to say
we wanna serve our community.
Well, continue to serve our community
well, by giving consistently
greatest way to give consistently
is set it up online, give each week.
That's a great way that you
can serve those around you.
But why do we do this guys?
I'll just tell you this.
It goes back to this.
I only do things when I
think they're valuable.
When I see the difference, it
makes in someone else's life.
We are doing this because
we know that we are pointing
people to Jesus by how we serve.
Jesus.
Didn't die for people to just get great
things and, you know, get served, but
he died so that people could experience
a personal relationship with him.
So whatever next step that God is
calling you to take it today during
this time of invitation, pray and
ask God how you take a next step in
the area of serving those around you.
If you haven't given your life to Jesus,
if that's your next step, if you're
sitting here thinking I can't even serve
anybody around me because I haven't
got my relationship where I with the
Lord today is the day of salvation.
You can give your life to Jesus.
You can say, I repented my sins and I
turn to you Lord, during invitation.
I'm always in the back
there to talk with you.
If you have questions about that, if
you have questions about, you know,
needing prayer, just come talk to me,
but I know this, you consistently, we
all need to ask ourselves this question.
What is stopping us from
taking the next step?
And if I can challenge you on
the back end of this, you wanna
know what's gonna stop you.
It's the same way it's
gonna stop me selfish.
You're gonna walk outta here and
you're gonna go, you know what?
I don't have to do that to be
saved and maybe you're right.
But I would say this, that if, if you're
having that heart, because of selfishness
that I believe the Lord's gonna convict
you because we can't stay in that place.
We can't stay where we are.
And just rest on what we did in the past,
but God is calling us to take a next step.
What is it?
You pray and ask the Lord
during this time of invitation.
Lord Jesus.
We love you.
And we pray Lord that you help
us Lord get outta the way.
Lord, may I, as, as, um, the pastor, Lord
be a model in this, may I take a next.
In the area of serving Lord,
will you convict my heart?
Will you clearly give me
direction on how I can serve?
Not only our church better, but our
community better those around me at
the gym or in my home or at the store.
Lord help me because I wanna be a
part of seeing your kingdom expanded.
I wanna be a part of seeing more
and more people come to faith in
you because of the way that I.
Not for my glory, but yours, Lord.
I know I'm not the only one in this room.
That's thinking that same thing,
Lord, I pray that every person that
is hearing this today, every person
that will watch this later this
week, because they were serving or
they couldn't make it to church.
Lord, I pray that you are giving them
direction right now on how they can take
a next step to serve those around them.
Lord, just pray this in your heaven name.
Amen.